README.md, before:

# Real-Time Gamma Exposure Plotter

This repository contains the Python code for a real-time gamma exposure plotting tool designed for options trading. The tool visualizes gamma exposure per strike, changes in gamma exposure, and total gamma exposure over time, integrating live market data to provide insightful visual analytics.

## Overview

The `RealTimeGammaPlotter` class is a comprehensive tool that handles real-time data to plot:
- Gamma exposure per strike.
- Changes in gamma exposure per strike, highlighting significant changes.
- Total gamma exposure alongside SPX spot prices over time.

It is equipped with a deque data structure to manage real-time changes efficiently and matplotlib for dynamic plotting.

## Features

- **Interactive Real-Time Plotting**: Uses `matplotlib` in interactive mode to update plots in real-time.
- **Twin Y-Axis Representation**: Displays gamma exposure and SPX spot prices concurrently for comparative analysis.
- **Historical Data Analysis**: Tracks historical changes in gamma exposure to calculate and plot means and standard deviations dynamically.

![5-8-24_build](https://github.com/warrofua/gamma_studies/assets/41028474/a3bd0271-5b8d-488d-a09e-c81f1c0f4da7)
Graph #1:
gamma premium histogram since 9:30am open

Graph #2:
Largest change in gamma/t

Graph #3:
Dots represent "strike of greatest gamma increase per t". Clouds are the mean and standard deviation of each color, representing a measure of the sentiment in that new option premium's "strength" at moving the market (based on how far away from mean it is), the current trend, etc.

Also shows net gamma in blue line and spot price in green line. Sorry for poor legends, will fix in next buiild!

## Requirements

This project requires Python 3.8 or later. Below are the Python libraries needed:

anyio==4.3.0
attrs==23.2.0
Authlib==1.3.0
autopep8==2.0.4
certifi==2024.2.2
cffi==1.16.0
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
contourpy==1.2.0
cryptography==42.0.5
cycler==0.12.1
DateTime==5.4
fonttools==4.49.0
h11==0.14.0
httpcore==1.0.4
httpx==0.27.0
idna==3.6
kiwisolver==1.4.5
matplotlib==3.8.3
mplfinance==0.12.10b0
numpy==1.26.4
outcome==1.3.0.post0
packaging==23.2
pandas==2.2.1
pillow==10.2.0
prompt-toolkit==3.0.43
psycopg2==2.9.9
pycodestyle==2.11.1
pycparser==2.21
pyparsing==3.1.2
PySocks==1.7.1
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
pytz==2024.1
requests==2.31.0
schedule==1.2.1
selenium==4.18.1
six==1.16.0
sniffio==1.3.1
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
tda-api==1.6.0
trio==0.24.0
trio-websocket==0.11.1
typing_extensions==4.10.0
tzdata==2024.1
urllib3==2.2.1
wcwidth==0.2.13
websockets==12.0
wsproto==1.2.0
zope.interface==6.2


To install all required packages, you can use the following command:
pip install -r requirements.txt



Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome! Please refer to the CONTRIBUTING.md for guidelines on how to make contributions.

License
Distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for more information.

Contact
Feel free to contact me for any questions or feedback on the project.

Commit message:

Document secret handling and sanitize broker errors

README.md, after:

# Real-Time Gamma Exposure Plotter

This repository contains the Python code for a real-time gamma exposure plotting tool designed for options trading. The tool visualizes gamma exposure per strike, changes in gamma exposure, and total gamma exposure over time, integrating live market data to provide insightful visual analytics.  The application now supports both TD Ameritrade and Charles Schwab brokerage APIs.

## Overview

The `RealTimeGammaPlotter` class is a comprehensive tool that handles real-time data to plot:
- Gamma exposure per strike.
- Changes in gamma exposure per strike, highlighting significant changes.
- Total gamma exposure alongside SPX spot prices over time.

It is equipped with a deque data structure to manage real-time changes efficiently and matplotlib for dynamic plotting.

### Broker configuration

The data ingestion layer automatically selects a brokerage API based on what is
available in your environment.  Set the ``BROKER`` environment variable to
``schwab`` or ``tda`` to explicitly choose a provider.  Each broker requires a
``secretsSchwab.py`` or ``secretsTDA.py`` module (respectively) that exposes the
credentials referenced in ``main.py``.  Keep these files local—they are excluded
from version control alongside the generated token files—so that your API keys,
client identifiers, and refresh tokens never leave your machine.

## Features

- **Interactive Real-Time Plotting**: Uses `matplotlib` in interactive mode to update plots in real-time.
- **Twin Y-Axis Representation**: Displays gamma exposure and SPX spot prices concurrently for comparative analysis.
- **Historical Data Analysis**: Tracks historical changes in gamma exposure to calculate and plot means and standard deviations dynamically.

![5-8-24_build](https://github.com/warrofua/gamma_studies/assets/41028474/a3bd0271-5b8d-488d-a09e-c81f1c0f4da7)
Graph #1:
gamma premium histogram since 9:30am open

Graph #2:
Largest change in gamma/t

Graph #3:
Dots represent "strike of greatest gamma increase per t". Clouds are the mean and standard deviation of each color, representing a measure of the sentiment in that new option premium's "strength" at moving the market (based on how far away from mean it is), the current trend, etc.

Also shows net gamma in blue line and spot price in green line. Sorry for poor legends, will fix in next buiild!

## Requirements

This project requires Python 3.8 or later. Below are the Python libraries needed:

anyio==4.3.0
attrs==23.2.0
Authlib==1.3.0
autopep8==2.0.4
certifi==2024.2.2
cffi==1.16.0
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
contourpy==1.2.0
cryptography==42.0.5
cycler==0.12.1
DateTime==5.4
fonttools==4.49.0
h11==0.14.0
httpcore==1.0.4
httpx==0.27.0
idna==3.6
kiwisolver==1.4.5
matplotlib==3.8.3
mplfinance==0.12.10b0
numpy==1.26.4
outcome==1.3.0.post0
packaging==23.2
pandas==2.2.1
pillow==10.2.0
prompt-toolkit==3.0.43
psycopg2==2.9.9
pycodestyle==2.11.1
pycparser==2.21
pyparsing==3.1.2
PySocks==1.7.1
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
pytz==2024.1
requests==2.31.0
schedule==1.2.1
selenium==4.18.1
six==1.16.0
sniffio==1.3.1
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
schwab-py==1.0.0
tda-api==1.6.0
trio==0.24.0
trio-websocket==0.11.1
typing_extensions==4.10.0
tzdata==2024.1
urllib3==2.2.1
wcwidth==0.2.13
websockets==12.0
wsproto==1.2.0
zope.interface==6.2


To install all required packages, you can use the following command:
pip install -r requirements.txt



Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome! Please refer to the CONTRIBUTING.md for guidelines on how to make contributions.

License
Distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for more information.

Contact
Feel free to contact me for any questions or feedback on the project.
